README.md, before:

# CodeTeams

This gem is a simple, low-dependency, plugin-based manager for teams within a codebase.

## Usage

To use `code_teams`, add YML files in `config/teams` that start with structure:
`config/teams/my_team.yml`
```yml
name: My Team
```

`code_teams` leverages a plugin system because every organization's team practices are different. Say your organization uses GitHub and wants to ensure every team YML files has a GitHub owner. To do this, you create a plugin:

```ruby
class MyGithubPlugin < CodeTeams::Plugin
  extend T::Sig
  extend T::Helpers

  GithubStruct = Struct.new(:team, :members)

  sig { returns(GithubStruct) }
  def github
    raw_github = @team.raw_hash['github'] || {}

    GithubStruct.new(
      raw_github['team'],
      raw_github['members'] || []
    )
  end

  def member?(user)
    github.members.include?(user)
  end

  sig { override.params(teams: T::Array[CodeTeams::Team]).returns(T::Array[String]) }
  def self.validation_errors(teams)
    errors = T.let([], T::Array[String])

    teams.each do |team|
      if self.for(team).github.team.nil?
        errors << missing_key_error_message(team, 'github.team')
      end
    end

    errors
  end
end
```

After adding the proper GitHub information to the team YML:
```yml
name: My Team
github:
  team: '@org/my-team'
  members:
    - member1
    - member2
```

1) You can now use the following API to get GitHub information about that team:

    ```ruby
    team = CodeTeams.find('My Team')
    members = team.github.members
    github_name = team.github.team
    ```

    Alternatively, you can assign an accessor method name that differs from the plugin's class name:

    ```ruby
    class MyPlugin < CodeTeams::Plugin
      data_accessor_name :other_name

      def other_name
        # ...
      end
    end

    # You can then use:
    team.other_name
    # similarly to the Github example above
    # You can then access data in the following manner:
    team.other_name.attribute_name
    ```

    However, to avoid confusion, it's recommended to use the naming convention 
    whenever possible so that your accessor name matches your plugin's name

2) Running team validations (see below) will ensure all teams have a GitHub team specified

    Your plugins can be as simple or as complex as you want. Here are some other things we use plugins for:

    - Identifying which teams own which feature flags
    - Mapping teams to specific portions of the code through `code_ownership`
    - Allowing teams to protect certain files and require approval on modification of certain files
    - Specifying owned dependencies (Ruby gems, JavaScript packages, and more)
    - Specifying how to get in touch with the team via Slack (their channel and handle)

## Configuration
You'll want to ensure that all teams are valid in your CI environment. We recommend running code like this in CI:
```ruby
require 'code_teams'

errors = CodeTeams.validation_errors(CodeTeams.all)
if errors.any?
  abort <<~ERROR
    Team validation failed with the following errors:
    #{errors.join("\n")}
  ERROR
end
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome!

Commit message:

docs: add Testing section to README
Document how to use code_teams/rspec and Testing.enable! for
creating temporary teams in specs.

README.md, after:

# CodeTeams

This gem is a simple, low-dependency, plugin-based manager for teams within a codebase.

## Usage

To use `code_teams`, add YML files in `config/teams` that start with structure:
`config/teams/my_team.yml`
```yml
name: My Team
```

`code_teams` leverages a plugin system because every organization's team practices are different. Say your organization uses GitHub and wants to ensure every team YML files has a GitHub owner. To do this, you create a plugin:

```ruby
class MyGithubPlugin < CodeTeams::Plugin
  extend T::Sig
  extend T::Helpers

  GithubStruct = Struct.new(:team, :members)

  sig { returns(GithubStruct) }
  def github
    raw_github = @team.raw_hash['github'] || {}

    GithubStruct.new(
      raw_github['team'],
      raw_github['members'] || []
    )
  end

  def member?(user)
    github.members.include?(user)
  end

  sig { override.params(teams: T::Array[CodeTeams::Team]).returns(T::Array[String]) }
  def self.validation_errors(teams)
    errors = T.let([], T::Array[String])

    teams.each do |team|
      if self.for(team).github.team.nil?
        errors << missing_key_error_message(team, 'github.team')
      end
    end

    errors
  end
end
```

After adding the proper GitHub information to the team YML:
```yml
name: My Team
github:
  team: '@org/my-team'
  members:
    - member1
    - member2
```

1) You can now use the following API to get GitHub information about that team:

    ```ruby
    team = CodeTeams.find('My Team')
    members = team.github.members
    github_name = team.github.team
    ```

    Alternatively, you can assign an accessor method name that differs from the plugin's class name:

    ```ruby
    class MyPlugin < CodeTeams::Plugin
      data_accessor_name :other_name

      def other_name
        # ...
      end
    end

    # You can then use:
    team.other_name
    # similarly to the Github example above
    # You can then access data in the following manner:
    team.other_name.attribute_name
    ```

    However, to avoid confusion, it's recommended to use the naming convention 
    whenever possible so that your accessor name matches your plugin's name

2) Running team validations (see below) will ensure all teams have a GitHub team specified

    Your plugins can be as simple or as complex as you want. Here are some other things we use plugins for:

    - Identifying which teams own which feature flags
    - Mapping teams to specific portions of the code through `code_ownership`
    - Allowing teams to protect certain files and require approval on modification of certain files
    - Specifying owned dependencies (Ruby gems, JavaScript packages, and more)
    - Specifying how to get in touch with the team via Slack (their channel and handle)

## Configuration
You'll want to ensure that all teams are valid in your CI environment. We recommend running code like this in CI:
```ruby
require 'code_teams'

errors = CodeTeams.validation_errors(CodeTeams.all)
if errors.any?
  abort <<~ERROR
    Team validation failed with the following errors:
    #{errors.join("\n")}
  ERROR
end
```

## Testing

`code_teams` provides test helpers for creating temporary teams in your specs without writing YML files to disk. Add the following to your `spec_helper.rb` (or `rails_helper.rb`):

```ruby
require 'code_teams/rspec'

CodeTeams::Testing.enable!
```

This gives you:
- A `code_team_with_config` helper method available in all specs
- Automatic cleanup of testing teams between examples

Example usage in a spec:

```ruby
RSpec.describe 'my feature' do
  it 'works with a team' do
    team = code_team_with_config(name: 'Test Team', github: { team: '@org/test' })

    expect(CodeTeams.find('Test Team')).to eq(team)
  end
end
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome!
